hey y'all my name is Maegan gras foie
and that was born and raised in Battery
Louisiana on a fourth-generation
sugarcane farm and this is blackberry
farms blackberry farms have started over
65 years ago by my grandfather Charles
Grove was seen here and is now owned and
operated by his son Chuck Dickey and
Greg fill and leave sugar cane is a
member of the grass family which means
it'll grow another stand after each
harvest
however after three to five years the
yields tend to go down substantially
seeing as how it's late summer that must
mean it's time to plant some cane first
rows are drawn using GPS technology
despite technology plant cane is still
cut with an original sugar cane
harvester which leaves the stalks whole
this is because more open ends will
leave the plant cane susceptible to bugs
and disease each stalk is cut at the
base of the row in addition to having
the leafy green top removed the cane
cutter then lays each stalk to the
center of the two rows allowing for easy
collection for the cane loader the cane
loader pushes the stalks of cane along
the ground forming a large pile the
large pile is then picked up with the
mechanical arm and placed into the
planter until the wagon is full
Jerome plans it mechanically
stalks of cane are laid in the rows as
new sprouts of cane will grow at each
joint like this
after the cane has been planted the
walkers must pass down each row to
ensure that 3 to 5 stocks have been laid
in each place and to ensure that the
planner didn't miss any gaps with 600
acres to plant that means each worker
will average about 100 acres and 90
degree or more heat not an easy job
well I hope you enjoyed your day here on
BlackBerry farms and if you come back
next year at this time this empty field
should be as tall as the cane we cut
today and ready to harvest thanks for
all your help and raising some Cain but
I've got some work to do